APPEALING
You gain the following characteristics:
Charismatic: +2 to your Intellect Pool.
Skill: You are trained in pleasant social
interactions.
Resistant to Charms: You’re aware of how
others can manipulate and charm people, and
you notice when those tactics are used on you.
Because of this awareness, you are trained in
resisting any kind of persuasion or seduction if
you wish it.
BENEFICENT
You gain the following characteristics:
Generous: Allies who have spent the last day
with you add +1 to their recovery rolls.
Altruistic: If you’re standing next to a creature
that takes damage, you can intercede and take
1 point of that damage yourself (reducing the
damage inflicted on the creature by 1 point). If
you have Armor, it does not provide a benefit
when you use this ability.
Skill: You’re trained in all tasks related to
pleasant social interaction, putting other people
at ease, and gaining trust.
Helpful: Whenever you help another character,
that character gains the benefit as if you were
trained even if you are not trained or specialized
in the attempted task.
Inability: While you are alone, all Intellect and
Speed tasks are hindered.
BRASH
You gain the following characteristics:
Energetic: +2 to your Speed Pool.
Skill: You are trained in initiative.
Bold: You are trained in all actions that involve
overcoming or ignoring the effects of fear or
intimidation.
CALM
You gain the following characteristics:
Bookish: +2 to your Intellect Pool.
Skills: You are trained in four nonphysical skills
of your choice.
Trivia: You can come up with a random fact
pertinent to the current situation when you wish
it. This is always a matter of fact, not conjecture
or supposition, and must be something you
could have logically read or seen in the past. 
You can do this one time, although the ability is
renewed each time you make a recovery roll.
Inability: You’re just not a fighter. All physical
attacks are hindered.
Inability: You’re not the outdoorsy type. All
climbing, running, jumping, and swimming tasks
are hindered.
CHAOTIC
You gain the following characteristics:
Tumultuous: +4 to your Speed Pool.
Skill: You are trained in Intellect defense
actions.
Chaotic: Once after each ten-hour recovery
roll, if you don’t like the first result, you can reroll
a die roll of your choice. If you do, and regardless
of the outcome, the GM presents you with a GM
intrusion.
Inability: Your body is a bit worn from
occasional excesses. Might defense tasks are
hindered.
CHARMING
You gain the following characteristics:
Personable: +2 to your Intellect Pool.
Skill: You’re trained in all tasks involving
positive or pleasant social interaction.
Skill: You’re trained when using special
abilities that influence the minds of others.
Contact: You have an important contact who is
in an influential position, such as a minor noble,
the captain of the town guard/police, or the
head of a large gang of thieves. You and the GM
should work out the details together.
Inability: You were never good at studying
or retaining facts. Any task involving lore,
knowledge, or understanding is hindered.
Inability: Your willpower is not one of your
strong points. Defense actions to resist mental
attacks are hindered.
Additional Equipment: You’ve managed to
talk your way into some decent discounts and
bonuses in recent weeks. As a result, you have
enough cash jangling in your pocket to purchase
a moderately priced item
CLEVER
You gain the following characteristics:
Smart: +2 to your Intellect Pool.
Skill: You’re trained in all interactions involving
lies or trickery.
Skill: You’re trained in defense rolls to resist
mental effects.
Skill: You’re trained in all tasks involving
identifying or assessing danger, lies, quality,
importance, function, or power.
Inability: You were never good at studying or
retaining trivial knowledge. Any task involving
lore, knowledge, or understanding is hindered.
Additional Equipment: You see through the
schemes of others and occasionally convince
them to believe you—even when, perhaps, they
should not. Thanks to your clever behavior, you
have an additional expensive item.
CLUMSY
You gain the following characteristics:
Butterfingers: −2 to your Speed Pool.
Thick-Muscled: +2 to your Might Pool.
Inelegant: You have a certain lovable charm.
You are trained in all pleasant social interactions
when you express a lighthearted, self-deprecating
manner.
Dumb Luck: The GM can introduce a GM
intrusion on you, based on your clumsiness,
without awarding you any XP (as if you had rolled
a 1 on a d20 roll). However, if this happens,
50% of the time, your clumsiness works to your
advantage. Rather than hurting you (much), it
helps you, or it hurts your enemies. You slip, but
it’s just in time to duck an attack. You fall down,
but you trip your enemies as you crash into their
legs. You turn around too quickly, but you end up
knocking the weapon from your foe’s hand. You 
and the GM should work together to determine
the details. If the GM wishes, they can use GM
intrusions based on your clumsiness normally
(awarding XP).
Skill: You’ve got a certain bull-like quality. You
are trained in tasks involving breaking things.
Inability: Any task that involves balance, grace,
or hand-to-eye coordination is hindered.
CRAVEN
You gain the following characteristics:
Furtive: +2 to your Speed Pool.
Skill: You’re trained in stealth-based tasks.
Skill: You’re trained in running actions.
Skill: You’re trained in any action taken to
escape danger, flee from a dangerous situation,
or wheedle your way out of trouble.
Inability: You do not willingly enter dangerous
situations. Any initiative actions (to determine
who goes first in combat) are hindered.
Inability: You fall to pieces when you have to
undertake a potentially dangerous task alone.
Any such task (such as attacking a creature by
yourself) is hindered.
Additional Equipment: You have a good luck
charm or protective device to keep you out of
harm’s way.
CREATIVE
You gain the following characteristics:
Inventive: +2 to your Intellect Pool.
Original: You’re always coming up with
something new. You’re trained in any task related
to creating a narrative (such as a story, play,
or scenario). This includes deception, if the
deception involves a narrative you’re able to tell.
Skill: You are naturally inventive. You are
trained in one specific creative skill of your
choice: writing, computer coding, composing
music, painting, drawing, and so on.
Skill: You love solving riddles and the like. You
are trained in puzzle-solving tasks.
Skill: To be creative requires that you always be
learning. You are trained in any task that involves
finding out something new, such as when you’re
digging through a library, data bank, news
archive, or similar collection of knowledge.
Inability: You’re inventive but not charming.
All tasks related to pleasant social interaction are
hindered.
CRUEL
You gain the following characteristics:
Cunning: +2 to your Intellect Pool.
Cruelty: When you use force, you can choose
to maim or deliver painful injuries to draw
out your foe’s suffering. Whenever you inflict
damage, you can choose to inflict 2 fewer points
of damage to ease your next attack against that
foe.
Skill: You’re trained in tasks related to
deception, intimidation, and persuasion when
you interact with characters experiencing
physical or emotional pain.
Inability: You have a hard time connecting with
others, understanding their motives, or sharing
their feelings. Any task to ascertain another
character’s motives, feelings, or disposition is
hindered.
Additional Equipment: You have a valuable
memento from the last person you destroyed.
The memento is moderately priced, and you can
sell it or trade it for an item of equal or lesser
value.
DISHONORABLE
You gain the following characteristics:
Sneaky: +4 to your Speed Pool.
Just Desserts: When the GM gives another
player an experience point to award to someone
for a GM intrusion, that player cannot give it to
you.
Skill: You are trained in deception.
Skill: You are trained in stealth.
Skill: You are trained in intimidation.
Inability: People don’t like or trust you.
Pleasant social interactions are hindered.
DOOMED
You gain the following characteristics:
Jumpy: +2 to your Speed Pool.
Skill: Always on the lookout for danger, you are
trained in perception-related tasks.
Skill: You are defense minded, so you are
trained in Speed defense tasks.
Skill: You are cynical and expect the worst.
Thus, you are resistant to mental shocks. You are
trained in Intellect defense tasks having to do
with losing your sanity or equanimity.
Doom: Every other time the GM uses GM
intrusion on your character, you cannot refuse it
and do not get an XP for it (you still get an XP to
award to another player). This is because you are
doomed. The universe is a cold, uncaring place,
and your efforts are futile at best.
EMPATHIC
You gain the following characteristics:
Open Mind: +4 to your Intellect Pool.
Skill: You’re trained in tasks involving sensing
other emotions, discerning dispositions, and
getting a hunch about people around you.
Skill: You’re trained in all tasks involving social
interaction, pleasant or otherwise.
Inability: Being so receptive to others’
thoughts and moods makes you vulnerable to
anything that attacks your mind. Intellect defense
rolls are hindered.
FAST
You gain the following characteristics:
Energetic: +2 to your Speed Pool.
Skill: You are trained in running.
Fast: You can move a short distance and still
take another action in the same round, or you
can move a long distance as your action without
needing to make any kind of roll.
Inability: You’re a sprinter, not a long-distance
runner. You don’t have a lot of stamina. Might
defense rolls are hindered.
FOOLISH
You gain the following characteristics:
Unwise: –4 to your Intellect Pool.
Carefree: You succeed more on luck than
anything. Every time you roll for a task, roll twice
and take the higher result.
Intellect Weakness: Any time you spend points
from your Intellect Pool, it costs you 1 more
point than usual.
Inability: Any Intellect defense task is hindered.
Inability: Any task that involves seeing through
a deception, an illusion, or a trap is hindered.
GRACEFUL
You gain the following characteristics:
Agile: +2 to your Speed Pool.
Skill: You’re trained in all tasks involving
balance and careful movement.
Skill: You’re trained in all tasks involving
physical performing arts.
Skill: You’re trained in all Speed defense tasks
GUARDED
You gain the following characteristics:
Suspicious: +2 to your Intellect Pool.
Skill: You are trained in all Intellect defense
tasks.
Skill: You are trained in all tasks involving
discerning the truth, piercing disguises, and
recognizing falsehoods and other deceptions.
Inability: Your suspicious nature makes you
unlikeable. Any task involving deception or
persuasion is hindered.
HARDY
You gain the following characteristics:
Mighty: +4 to your Might Pool.
Fast Healer: You halve the time it takes to
make a recovery roll (minimum one action).
Almost Unstoppable: While you are impaired
on the damage track, you function as if you were
hale. While you are debilitated, you function as
if you were impaired. In other words, you don’t
suffer the effects of being impaired until you
become debilitated, and you never suffer the
effects of being debilitated. You still die if all your
stat Pools are 0.
Skill: You are trained in Might defense actions.
Inability: Your big, strong body is slow to react.
Any task involving initiative is hindered.
Ponderous: When you apply Effort when
making a Speed roll, you must spend 1 extra
point from your Speed Pool.
HIDEOUS
You gain the following characteristics:
Versatile: You get 4 additional points to divide
among your stat Pools.
Skill: You are trained in intimidation and any
other fear-based interactions, if you show your
true face.
Skill: You are trained in disguise and stealth
tasks.
Inability: All tasks relating to pleasant social
interaction are hindered.
HONORABLE
You gain the following characteristics:
Stalwart: +2 to your Might Pool.
Skill: You are trained in pleasant social
interactions.
Skill: You are trained in discerning people’s
true motives or seeing through lies.
IMPULSIVE
You gain the following characteristics:
Reckless: +2 to your Speed Pool.
Skill: You’re trained in initiative actions (to
determine who goes first in combat).
Skill: You’re trained in Speed defense actions.
Inability: You’ll try anything once, but quickly
grow bored after that. Any task that involves
patience, willpower, or discipline is hindered.
INQUISITIVE
You gain the following characteristics:
Smart: +4 to your Intellect Pool.
Skill: You are eager to learn. You are trained
in any task that involves learning something
new, whether you’re talking to a local to get
information or digging through old books to find
lore.
Skill: You have made a study of the world. You
are trained in any task involving geography or
history.
Inability: You tend to fixate on the details,
making you somewhat oblivious to what’s
going on around you. Any task to hear or notice
dangers around you is hindered.
Inability: When you see something interesting,
you hesitate as you take in all the details.
Initiative actions (to determine who goes first in
combat) are hindered.
Additional Equipment: You have three books
on whatever subjects you choose
INTELLIGENT
You gain the following characteristics:
Smart: +2 to your Intellect Pool.
Skill: You’re trained in an area of knowledge of
your choice.
Skill: You’re trained in all actions that involve
remembering or memorizing things you experience
directly. For example, instead of being good at
recalling details of geography that you read about
in a book, you can remember a path through a
set of tunnels that you’ve explored before.
INTUITIVE
You gain the following characteristics:
Innate: +2 to your Intellect Pool.
Skill: You are trained in perception tasks.
Know What to Do: You can act immediately,
even if it’s not your turn. Afterward, on your next
regular turn, any action you take is hindered.
You can do this one time, although the ability is
renewed each time you make a recovery roll.
JOVIAL
You gain the following characteristics:
Witty: +2 to your Intellect Pool.
Skill: You’re convivial and set most people at
ease with your attitude. You are trained in all
tasks related to pleasant social interaction.
Skill: You have an advantage in figuring out the
punch lines of jokes you’ve never heard before.
You are trained in all tasks related to solving
puzzles and riddles.
KIND
You gain the following characteristics:
Emotionally Intuitive: +2 to your Intellect Pool.
Skill: You know what it’s like to go a mile
in someone else’s shoes. You’re trained in all
tasks related to pleasant social interaction and
discerning the dispositions of others.
Karma: Sometimes, strangers just help you
out. To gain the aid of a stranger, you must use
a one action, ten-minute, or one-hour recovery
roll (without gaining its healing benefit), and
the GM determines the nature of the aid you
gain. Usually, the act of kindness isn’t enough
to turn a bad situation completely around, but it
may moderate a bad situation and lead to new
opportunities. For example, if you are captured,
a guard loosens your bonds slightly, brings you
water, or delivers a message.
Inability: Being kind comes with a few risks.
All tasks related to detecting falsehoods are
hindered.
LEARNED
You gain the following characteristics:
Smart: +2 to your Intellect Pool.
Skill: You’re trained in three areas of
knowledge of your choice.
Inability: You have few social graces. Any task
involving charm, persuasion, or etiquette is
hindered.
Additional Equipment: You have two additional
books on topics of your choice.
LUCKY
You gain the following characteristics:
Luck Pool: You have one additional Pool
called Luck that begins with 3 points, and it has
a maximum value of 3 points. When spending
points from any other Pool, you can take one,
some, or all of the points from your Luck Pool
first. When you make a recovery roll to recover
points to any other Pool, your Luck Pool is also
refreshed by the same number of points. When
your Luck Pool is at 0 points, it does not count
against your damage track. Enabler.
Advantage: When you use 1 XP to reroll a d20
for any roll that affects only you, add 3 to the reroll.
MAD
You gain the following characteristics:
Knowledgeable: +4 to your Intellect Pool.
Fits of Insight: Whenever such knowledge
is appropriate, the GM feeds you information
although there is no clear explanation as to how
you could know such a thing. This is up to the
GM’s discretion, but it should happen as often
as once each session.
Erratic Behavior: You are prone to acting
erratically or irrationally. When you are in the
presence of a major discovery or subjected to
great stress (such as a serious physical threat),
the GM can introduce a GM intrusion that
directs your next action without awarding XP.
You can still pay 1 XP to refuse the intrusion.
The GM’s influence is the manifestation of
your madness and thus is always something
you would not likely do otherwise, but it is not
directly, obviously harmful to you unless there
are extenuating circumstances. (For example,
if a foe suddenly leaps out of the darkness,
you might spend the first round babbling
incoherently or screaming the name of your first
true love.)
Skill: You are trained in one area of knowledge
(probably something weird or esoteric).
Inability: Your mind is quite fragile. Tasks to
resist mental attacks are hindered.
MECHANICAL
You gain the following characteristics:
Smart: +2 to your Intellect Pool.
Skill: You’re trained in all actions involving
identifying or understanding machines.
Skill: You’re trained in all actions involving
using, repairing, or crafting machines.
Additional Equipment: You start with a variety
of machine tools.
MYSTERIOUS
You gain the following characteristics:
Skill: You are trained in all stealth tasks.
Skill: You are trained in resisting interrogation
or tricks to get you to talk.
Confounding: You pull talents and abilities
seemingly out of nowhere. You can attempt one
task in which you have no training as if you were
trained, attempt a task that you are trained in as
if specialized, or gain a free level of Effort with
a task that you are specialized in. This ability
refreshes every time you make a recovery roll, but
the uses never accumulate.
Inability: People never know where they stand
with you. Any task involving getting people to
believe or trust you is hindered.
MYSTICAL
You gain the following characteristics:
Smart: +2 to your Intellect Pool.
Skill: You’re trained in all actions involving
identifying or understanding the supernatural.
Sense Magic: You can sense whether the
supernatural is active in situations where its
presence is not obvious. You must study an
object or location closely for a minute to get a
feel for whether a mystical touch is at work.
Spell: You can perform Hedge Magic as a
spell when you have a free hand and can pay the
Intellect point cost.
Inability: You have a manner or an aura that
others find a bit unnerving. Any task involving
charm, persuasion, or deception is hindered.
NAIVE
You gain the following characteristics:
Fresh: You add +1 to your recovery rolls.
Incorruptible: You are trained in Intellect
defense tasks and all tasks that involve resisting
temptation.
Skill: You’re wide-eyed. You are trained in
perception tasks.
Inability: Any task that involves seeing through
deceptions or determining someone’s secret
motive is hindered.
PERCEPTIVE
You gain the following characteristics:
Smart: +2 to your Intellect Pool.
Skill: You have an eye for detail. You are trained
in any task that involves finding or noticing small
details.
Skill: You know a little about everything. You
are trained in any task that involves identifying
objects or calling to mind a minor detail or bit of
trivia.
Skill: Your skill at making deductions can
be imposing. You are trained in any task that
involves intimidating another creature.
Inability: Your confidence comes off as
arrogance to people who don’t know you. Any
task involving positive social interactions is
hindered.
Additional Equipment: You have a bag of light
tools.
RESILIENT
You gain the following characteristics:
Resistant: +2 to your Might Pool, and +2 to
your Intellect Pool.
Recover: You can make an extra recovery roll
each day. This roll is just one action. So you
can make two recovery rolls that each take one
action, one roll that takes ten minutes, a fourth
roll that takes one hour, and a fifth roll that
requires ten hours of rest.
Skill: You are trained in Might defense tasks.
Skill: You are trained in Intellect defense tasks.
Inability: You’re hardy but not necessarily
strong. Any task involving moving, bending, or
breaking things is hindered.
Inability: You have a lot of willpower and
mental fortitude, but you’re not necessarily
smart. Any task involving knowledge or figuring
out problems or puzzles is hindered.
RISK-TAKING
You gain the following characteristics:
Nimble: +4 to your Speed Pool.
Skill: You’re adept at leveraging risk, and you
are trained in tasks that involve some element
of chance, such as playing games or choosing
between two or three apparently equal options.
Pressing Your Luck: You can choose to
automatically succeed on one task without 
rolling, as long as the task’s difficulty is no
higher than 6. When you do so, however, you
also trigger a GM intrusion as if you had rolled
a 1. The intrusion doesn’t invalidate the success,
but it probably qualifies it in some fashion. You
can do this one time, although the ability renews
each time you make a ten-hour recovery roll.
Inability: You may be nimble, but you’re not
sneaky. Tasks related to sneaking and staying
quiet are hindered.
RUGGED
You gain the following characteristics:
Skill: You’re trained in all tasks involving
climbing, jumping, running, and swimming.
Skill: You’re trained in all tasks involving
training, riding, or placating natural animals.
Skill: You’re trained in all tasks involving
identifying or using natural plants.
Inability: You have no social graces and prefer
animals to people. Any task involving charm,
persuasion, etiquette, or deception is hindered.
Additional Equipment: You carry an explorer’s
pack with rope, two days’ rations, a bedroll, and
other tools needed for outdoor survival.
SHARP-EYED
You gain the following characteristics:
Skill: You’re trained in initiative actions.
Skill: You’re trained in perception actions.
Find the Flaw: If an opponent has a
straightforward weakness (takes extra damage
from fire, can’t see out of their left eye, and so
on), the GM will tell you what it is.
SKEPTICAL
You gain the following characteristics:
Insightful: +2 to your Intellect Pool.
Skill: You’re trained in identifying.
Skill: You’re trained in all actions that involve
seeing through a trick, an illusion, a rhetorical ruse
designed to evade the issue, or a lie. For example,
you’re better at keeping your eye on the cup
containing the hidden ball, sensing an illusion,
or realizing if someone is lying to you (but only if
you specifically concentrate and use this skill).
STEALTHY
You gain the following characteristics:
Quick: +2 to your Speed Pool.
Skill: You’re trained in all stealth tasks.
Skill: You’re trained in all interactions involving
lies or trickery.
Skill: You’re trained in all special abilities
involving illusions or trickery.
Inability: You’re sneaky but not fast. All
movement-related tasks are hindered.
STRONG
You’re extremely strong and physically powerful,
and you use these qualities well, whether
through violence or feats of prowess. You likely
have a brawny build and impressive muscles.
You gain the following characteristics:
Very Powerful: +4 to your Might Pool.
Skill: You’re trained in all actions involving
breaking inanimate objects.
Skill: You’re trained in all jumping actions.
Additional Equipment: You have an extra
medium weapon or heavy weapon.
STRONG-WILLED
You gain the following characteristics:
Willful: +4 to your Intellect Pool.
Skill: You’re trained in resisting mental effects.
Skill: You’re trained in tasks requiring
incredible focus or concentration.
Inability: Willful doesn’t mean brilliant.
Any task that involves figuring out puzzles or
problems, memorizing things, or using lore is
hindered.
SWIFT
You gain the following characteristics:
Fast: +4 to your Speed Pool.
Skill: You’re trained in initiative actions (to
determine who goes first in combat).
Skill: You’re trained in running actions.
Inability: You’re fast but not necessarily
graceful. Any task involving balance is hindered.
TONGUE-TIED
You gain the following characteristics:
Actions, Not Words: +2 to your Might Pool,
and +2 to your Speed Pool.
Skill: You are trained in perception.
Skill: You are trained in initiative (unless it’s a
social situation).
Inability: All tasks relating to social interaction
are hindered.
Inability: All tasks involving verbal communication
or relaying information are hindered.
TOUGH
You gain the following characteristics:
Resilient: +1 to Armor.
Healthy: Add 1 to the points you regain when
you make a recovery roll.
Skill: You’re trained in Might defense actions.
Additional Equipment: You have an extra light
weapon.
VICIOUS
You gain the following characteristics:
Skill: You are trained in tracking creatures. If
a creature has wronged you, the tracking task is
eased.
Bloodthirsty: Once you begin fighting, you
see only red. You inflict 2 additional points of
damage with any attack.
Berserk: Once you begin fighting, it’s hard for
you to stop. In fact, it’s a difficulty 2 Intellect task
to do so, even if your foe surrenders or you’ve
run out of foes. If the latter occurs and you fail
to stop, you attack the nearest ally within short
range.
Additional Equipment: You have a record that
you use to list those who’ve wronged you.
VIRTUOUS
You gain the following characteristics:
Dauntless: +2 to your Might Pool.
Skill: You are trained in discerning people’s
true motives or seeing through lies.
Skill: Your adherence to a strict moral code
has hardened your mind against fear, doubt, and
outside influence. You are trained in Intellect
defense tasks.
WEIRD
You gain the following characteristics:
Inner Light: +2 to your Intellect Pool.
Distinctive Physical Quirk: You have a unique
physical aspect that is, well, bizarre. Depending
on the setting, this can vary greatly. You might
have purple hair or metal spikes on your head.
Perhaps your hands don’t connect to your arms,
although they move as if they do. Maybe a
third eye stares out from the side of your head,
or superfluous tendrils grow from your back.
Whatever it is, your quirk might be a mutation, a
supernatural trait (a blessing or curse), a feature
with no explanation, or just a really wild tattoo
that draws a lot of attention.
A Sense for the Weird: Sometimes—at the
GM’s discretion—weird things relating to the
supernatural or its effects on the world seem to 
call out to you. You can sense them from afar,
and if you get within long range of such a thing,
you can sense whether it is overtly dangerous or
not.
Skill: You are trained in supernatural
knowledge.
Inability: People find you unnerving. All
tasks relating to pleasant social interaction are
hindered.
